# Threat intelligence
## What is often overlooked in security?
Information is usually overlooked. It is information about Cyber attacks and Cyber threats
Those 2 comes to Threat Intelligence

## Threat Intelligence
It is evidence based information. It is the things left behind after attacks and etc.

We use this information to prevent the future vulnerabilities. Incident response is also kind of useful information

It has types of information:
- Technical (X)
- Strategic
- Operational
- Tactical (X)

### Technical TI
This artifacts that are left. Hashes, mails, IP addresses, hashes and something like that.

### Tactical TI
Procedure - exact steps you will do
Technique
Tactic

### Lifecycle
This is about how do I use the information for everything.

You start with getting information and etc (Preparation)
You do some Collection
Then you Process it.
Analyse
And share.

### TLP (Traffic Light Protocol)
TLP is a protocol that controls who can view which information.

## Tools and platforms
- Greynoise - good to check for IP addresses, can be checked for additional meta data, like what was used.
- VX underground - A team that is supposed to get analysis paper and malware for different APTs (Active Threats and etc), with samples and etc.
- Virustotal - good to check the files and hashes (sha256). 
- Abuse.ch - a platform that has a bunch of information about malicious things. It is also a place where you can download malware samples.
- MISP - open source platform where you can analyse and share Threat Intelligence. It really has information regarding the things
- MITRE ATT&CK - a big framework that shows how things can be used.

Sha256 - is a hashing algorithm